Networks:
	List of Things that may be in an IT office
		Asset Information - Documentation about Printers, Routers etc
		List of IP(v4/v6)/MAC addresses
		Microsoft Visio is used for network documentation
	Hub
		The hub is a piece of technology that tells data where it should go
	4-port Router
		Uses as a central connecting device that can connect up to 4 devices together
	Switch
		Used to conjuncture with other switches to tell packets where to move.
	Network Adapters and RJ45 Patch Cable
		A network adapter is a device that allows you to send and receive data to and from your computer
		An adapter can connect to the network by cable (wired) or air (wireless).
		An RJ45 cable is the most common type of network adapter port that allows the adapter to connect to most of todays wired networks.
	Ethernet
    A set of rules that govern the transmission of data between adapters and various connected devices
  Broadcast
    Data sent to everyone on the network
  Unicast
    Data sent to only one host
  Data Transfer Rate
    Lowercase b = bits (network speed)
    Uppercase B = bytes (disk space)
  IP Addresses
    IPv4/IPv6 - 32bit address
      ---.---.---.--- (- is octet, . is a period that separates the octets) --just the tip
      max number is 255.255.255.255
      my ip is something like 192.168.0.---
      192 means that the IP address is for private usage
      127.0.0.1 or LOCALHOST is your own router port. If you are hosting web pages or whatever on our own machine, you will probably use localhost:[port], such as localhost:1337
			Reasons for IPv4: 255^4 (4.3 billion) IP addresses only, meaning that it ran out a few years ago. This is why IPv6 was introduced, as there are 340 undecillion (34 zeros) IP addresses, meaning that there are more IP addresses than grains of sand on the Earth.
			IPv6 is unicast.
		Binary--just the tip
      Base10 is where you have 10 digits that you can use (0 to 9).
      Base2 is where you have 2 digits that you can use (0 and 1).
      101 = 01100101--just the tip
      251 = 11111011--just the tip
    Ping
      Packet Internet Groper, tells you if there is a reply to the packets that you have sent.
      Commands--just the tip
        ping loopback  - ???
        ping localhost - used to ping your own machine, pointless imo
        ping 127.0.0.1 - see localhost
    Wireless Access Points (WAP)
      ???--just the tip
    VLAN (VirtualLAN)
      This splits put your LAN so that it easier to manage
    DMZ
      A small zone that is set up to prevent incoming attackers.
    Network Topology
      Star
      Mesh
      Ring--just the tip
      IBM Token Ring
    Ethernet Standards
      802.3--just the tip
        It's a way to try to avoid collisions
    Frames
      Groups of Bytes
    Centralized Computing--just the tip
			???
    P2P
			???--just the tip
		OSI Model
			Application - Away
			Presentation - Pi--just the tipzza
			Session - Sausage
			Transport - Throw
			Network - Not
			Data Link - Do--just the tip
			Physical - Please
		Physical Layer
			Includes physical and electrical medium for data transfer
			Includes cables, jacks, patch panels, punch blocks, hubs, MAUs
			Used by Bluetooth and Infrared
		Communications Subnetwork--just the tip
			100BASE-T
				100 means 100mbps
				BASE means ???
				T means ???
		Data Link
		MAC
		Consider it a network card--just the tip
			A UUID assigned to the network adapter and manufacturer
		Layer 2 Switches
			Most commonly used type of switch in LAN
			Hardware based
			Store the MAC address
		VLAN
			Most common is IEEE 802.1(0?)--just the tip
			Used to group up IP addresses for easier data management
		Layer 3 Network Layer
			Think topolgies
		Layer 3 Switches
			More intelligent than Layer 2
			Uses logical addressing (IP) rather than illogical (MAC)
		Layer 4 Transport Layer
			Ensures error free transmission
			Doesn't care if the data is correct
			When you think 'ports', think the Transport Layer
		Connection Orientated Communication
			???
		Connectionless Communication
			???
		Ports
			There are a total of 65,536 ports numbered between 0 and 65535
			They are defined by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority and divided into categories
		MIDI Ports
			Medium dependent interface
			used for media
		Tools
			Cutter
			Wire Stripper
			*Punch Down Tool*
			Testing Device - called a Continuity Tester
		Interference
			Can be a real problem
			Can come from power cables and electrical symbols
		Electromagnetic interference
			Used to spy on data
			may be considered just interference
		STP cables
			stops cables from being twisted together
		Plenum Rated
			cables that are installed in the walls or above drop ceilings where they cannot be accessed by sprinkler systems
		Wireless Bridge
			Used to extend the wireless signal
		DNS
			Changes website names to IP addresses
		Private Ranges
			A - 10.0.0.0 to 10.255.255.255
			B - ???
			C - ???
		Automatic Private IP Addressing
			Uses a single Class B address 169.254.0.0
		Static IP
			Hardcoded
		Dynamic IP
			Used for DNS gateway












The first computer that we worked on was a Dell DCNE with a serial number of HD1KY2J. The unit was connected to a power socket and we took adequate safety proportions by removing anything loose such as lanyards and ties. The unit was secure in an ESD mat, meaning the machine was secured against ElectroStatic Discharge (ESD). The unit was complete; there were no missing components. When we turned the device on there were no error messages shown when it first booted up. Sadly, we couldn’t get past POST and error code 99 appeared. For this reason, we were unable to check the BIOS, therefore meaning that we were unable to check if the operating system worked, or even what type of operating system was installed on it or what version was installed. One of the fault was that there was a power supply failure, and another was that it would not get past POST.
